Academic Editors: Juan Ernesto
Solanes Galbis and Jean-Baptiste
Barreau
Received: 15 April 2025
Revised: 7 May 2025
Accepted: 13 May 2025
Published: 29 May 2025
Citation: Zheng, Z.; He, Y.; Yu, G.;
Xu, X. BinoForce: A Force-Based 3D
Dynamic Label Layout Method Under
Binocular Viewpoints. Electronics 2025,
14, 2199. https://doi.org/10.3390/
electronics14112199
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
(https://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/).
Article
BinoForce: A Force-Based 3D Dynamic Label Layout Method
Under Binocular Viewpoints †
Zijie Zheng 1,2
 , Yu He 2,*, Ge Yu 2 and Xi Xu 1,2
1 University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100094, China; zhengzijie23@mails.ucas.ac.cn (Z.Z.);
xuxi23@mails.ucas.ac.cn (X.X.)
2 Technology and Engineering Center for Space Utilization, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 101408, China; yuge@csu.ac.cn
* Correspondence: heyu@csu.ac.cn
† This article is a revised and expanded version of a poster entitled ‘3D Label Layout with Binocular
Optimization’, which was presented at the 2025 ACM SIGGRAPH Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics
and Games, Jersey City, NJ, USA, 7–9 May 2025. The current version contains substantially more detailed
experiments and analysis compared to the conference version.
Abstract: In 3D virtual environments, effective information presentation relies on clear
label layouts to annotate complex objects. As label density increases, structured and
adaptive layouts become critical to prevent visual clutter and maintain clarity. However,
existing label layout methods often overlook the issue of double vision between labels
caused by binocular disparity. Additionally, discrete update strategies in 3D label layouts
struggle to maintain layout quality during viewpoint changes due to their limited real-time
adaptability. To address these issues, this paper presents a binocular 3D dynamic label
layout method based on a continuous updating strategy within a force-based framework,
generating real-time binocular layouts to minimize visual confusion. Computational
evaluation and a user study demonstrate that the proposed method significantly reduces
double vision, as quantified by a reduction in double vision degree of up to 15.74%, along
with label overlap and leader line crossings. The results further indicate that our approach
surpasses existing methods in clarity, aesthetics, adaptability, and user satisfaction, while
reducing label reading time and alleviating users’ physical and effort demands, particularly
in high-density label environments.
Keywords: 3D label layout; virtual reality; information visualization; user studies
1. Introduction
Clear information presentation is critical for users in 3D environments, particularly in
immersive virtual reality (VR) or augmented reality (AR) applications. Labeling complex
3D structures or compositions allows users to quickly understand the functionality or
attributes of objects. A common approach to improving visual clarity is through textual
annotations, which provide additional details about objects in the scene. As shown in
Figure 1, these labels typically consist of three key components: the text label itself, an
anchor point marking the specific object being described, and a connecting line, commonly
referred to as a “leader line”. An effective label layout enhances interaction efficiency
by providing key information at a glance, reducing the time and effort needed to search
for relevant details. However, despite ongoing advancements, existing methods still
face significant challenges when dealing with label layout in dynamic 3D scenes with
changing viewpoints.
Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics14112199

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 2 of 20
A critical yet largely unaddressed challenge in 3D label layouts is the detrimental
impact of binocular double vision—both between labels themselves and between labels and
scene objects—on user experience. Current label placement methods primarily eliminate
overlaps in monocular optimization. While this achieves label separation in the central view
(Figure 2e), it inevitably causes residual overlap in the right-eye view (Figure 2f) due to
ignored binocular disparity. This phenomenon mirrors how holding a finger close to your
eyes makes it appear to “jump” sideways when alternating between left-/right-eye views.
Recent work has begun exploring binocular vision for label optimization. Peterson et al. [1]
improved label clarity and readability by distributing overlapping labels at different depths,
while Emsenhuber et al. [2] optimized label layouts under binocular viewpoints to prevent
double vision caused by differing backgrounds. However, these approaches still neglect
label–label and label–object double vision. To the best of our knowledge, no prior work
has addressed the negative effects of binocular double vision on user experience within the
specific context of 3D label placement.
Figure 1. A 3D model with a label illustrating the typical labeling structure. It consists of three key
components: the label itself, an anchor point on the object, and a leader line connecting the label to
the anchor point.
Figure 2. The results of handling label overlap under different perspective conditions are presented.
Three virtual cameras are placed at the left eye, right eye, and the midpoint between the two eyes to
simulate the views from each perspective. Subfigures (a–c) show a comparison of the same overlap-
ping label layout as observed from the left-eye, center, and right-eye perspectives. In subfigures (d–f),
the results of label layout optimization from a monocular perspective are displayed. Although the
overlap issue is resolved in the center view, the labels still overlap in the right-eye view. In contrast,
subfigures (g–i) present the label layout optimization results from binocular viewpoints. These results
show no overlap across all perspectives.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 3 of 20
Another challenge in dynamic 3D label layout lies in maintaining the efficacy of
discrete update strategies when the number of labels in the scene increases. While label
layout optimization under variable user viewpoints has garnered attention [ 3–5], many
image-space methods exhibit unpredictable layout changes with viewpoint shifts, dimin-
ishing consistency and user experience. To tackle this, Tatzgern et al. [ 6] proposed a
view management method for placing external labels in 3D object space, representing a
significant advancement in the labeling of static 3D objects. While Tatzgern et al. employed
a discrete update strategy, it still suffers from suboptimal layouts at certain moments due
to its discrete nature. Madsen et al. [7] further demonstrated that a discrete update strategy,
calculated from a single initial viewpoint, generally outperforms continuous strategies.
However, Madsen et al.’s approach, for instance, addressed label overlap primarily through
parallax effects between label planes, inadvertently introducing double vision and reducing
user comfort. More importantly, as label density increases, accurately positioning these
planes to eliminate overlap across numerous viewpoints becomes exponentially more
complex. This raises a critical question: can discrete update strategies remain advantageous
when a high label count requires intricate and potentially conflicting arrangements to
prevent overlap across multiple viewpoints? Therefore, when the number of labels in the
scene increases, these limitations present a significant hurdle to realizing the full potential
of discrete update strategies in dynamic 3D label layouts.
To address these challenges, our work has two primary goals: first, to reduce the
double vision effect between labels and between labels and objects and improve user
experience; and second, to alleviate the limitations of discrete update strategies when the
number of labels increases. In this paper, we present a 3D dynamic label layout method
based on a continuous updating strategy [8]. Our method simultaneously optimizes label
positions for both left- and right-eye viewpoints, effectively reducing double vision between
labels and between labels and objects caused by binocular disparity. To achieve smooth
and adaptive label movement, we adopt a force-based placement mechanism, where labels
dynamically adjust their positions under the influence of calculated forces in each frame.
As double vision between labels caused by binocular disparity has rarely been explored in
the existing literature, we conducted a user study to investigate its impact on users.
In the computational assessment, our method was evaluated in three scenarios, ef-
fectively mitigating double vision and outperforming baseline methods in reducing label
overlap and leader line crossings. We further conducted a user study where participants
completed a label-reading task while their task completion time, workload scores (NASA-
TLX [9]), and subjective questionnaire were collected. The results indicate that, compared
to the baseline methods, our approach enables users to read the label more quickly, par-
ticularly in high-density label environments. Moreover, it achieved significantly better
performance in workload scores and subjective questionnaire responses.
In summary, our main contributions are as follows:
• We demonstrate that double vision between labels caused by binocular disparity
negatively impacts user experience, introducing a binocular optimization strategy to
address this issue under dynamic viewpoints.
• We propose a 3D dynamic label layout method based on a continuous updating strat-
egy, enabling labels to update their positions under the influence of multiple forces.
• We evaluate the proposed method through computational assessment and a user study,
demonstrating its overall superiority over baseline methods.
2. Related Work
The study of label layout can be traced back to the 1970s. In 1975, Imhof et al. [ 10]
provided foundational guidelines for placing names on maps to improve both readability

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 4 of 20
and aesthetic quality. In recent years, automatic label layout has become an increasingly
active research area. However, many label layout problems have been proven to be NP-
hard [11], which means it is computationally infeasible to find exact solutions within
polynomial time. As a result, researchers commonly rely on heuristic or approximation
algorithms to address these challenges rather than seeking exact polynomial-time solutions.
Existing label layout methods can generally be classified into two categories based on
the space in which labels are placed: image space (2D) and world space (3D). In image space,
elements are positioned on the screen for readability and clarity (Section 2.1). In world
space, labels adjust dynamically based on the viewer’s distance and viewpoint, providing a
more immersive and context-aware user experience (Section 2.2). The respective advantages
and challenges of 2D and 3D label layouts will be presented in Section 2.3. For a more
comprehensive review of label layout methods, we recommend referring to [11,12].
2.1. Label Layouts in Image Space
Hartmann et al. [13] introduced an image-space floating label system using dynamic
potential fields. Although this system was effective, it did not address leader line crossings
or maintain label coherence in dynamic scenes. They later implemented real-time label
arrangements by projecting 3D scenes onto 2D space [4].
Image-driven methods are frequently used for 2D boundary labeling. Bekoset al. [14]
proposed placing labels along polygonal boundaries, connecting them with non-overlapping
leader lines. Their subsequent work [ 15] explored variations to improve aesthetic label
placement. Heinsohn et al. [ 16] developed a boundary labeling system for 2D biological
networks, offering four distinct label arrangement strategies and allowing dynamic focus
region movement.
Deep learning has also been applied to 2D label placement. Qu et al. [ 17] proposed
a Label Placement Graph Transformer (LPGT), formulating label placement as a node
prediction problem on a graph. Their method uses attention mechanisms to capture label
interactions and outperforms existing approaches on the AMIL dataset.
In mobile mixed reality, Shibata et al. [18] proposed an image-space labeling method
tailored for mobile devices. ˇCmolík et al. [ 5] introduced a real-time labeling technique
for illustrations, combining fuzzy logic with greedy optimization. Despite dealing with
3D objects, both methods relied heavily on image-space view management. Ekman [ 19]
presented a force-based method for real-time labeling of moving objects on maps, which
He et al. [ 20] later extended with a hybrid optimization approach to achieve smoother
dynamic label movements.
Image-space methods are also extensively used in augmented reality . Tatzgernet al. [21]
utilized hierarchical clustering to build a multi-level structure for efficiently managing large
datasets within the user’s field of view. Labels are dynamically selected based on user
preferences and visual clutter. Similarly , Grasset et al. [3] proposed an image-driven approach
that identifies significant regions within the image, applying geometric constraints derived
from visual saliency detection and edge analysis.
2.2. Label Layouts in World Space
World-space label layouts offer significant advantages in enhancing users’ spatial
awareness and immersion. Tatzgern et al. [ 6] introduced a view management method
arranging labels in 3D world space, addressing floating label issues, but its discrete updates
can cause constraint violations with viewpoint changes. Sirk et al. [ 22] built on this,
developing a label layout method for translucent scenarios (common in forensics) by
constraining the search space to finite planes at varying depths, improving search efficiency.
Pick et al. [23] presented an automated labeling system for immersive VR using shadow

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 5 of 20
volumes to detect occlusions and a force-based approach to reposition labels, though it did
not address leader line crossings.
In augmented reality and mixed reality environments, world-space label layouts have
also been widely explored. Zhou et al. [ 24] arranged labels alphabetically on multiple
concentric circles surrounding 3D objects, allowing users to locate specific labels more
efficiently. Building on this, Wei et al. [ 25] introduced a label-guided target localization
method, further enhancing object identification efficiency in VR settings. Köpper et al. [26]
proposed a comprehensive label layout strategy that integrates occlusion management,
level-of-detail control, and temporal consistency, treating labels as integral 3D scene ele-
ments. More recently, Chen et al. [27] became the first to apply reinforcement learning to
optimize moving object label layouts in AR environments, accounting for both the current
and predicted future states of objects and labels to dynamically adjust layouts. Employing
reinforcement learning, Gebhardt et al. [28] presented an approach to learn personalized
cooperative labeling policies for mixed-reality systems, optimizing for minimal visual
overload during visual search tasks by observing users’ gaze patterns.
Furthermore, labels can be considered a form of user interface element. In recent
years, the field of adaptive user interfaces (AUIs) has seen a surge in research. Adaptive
user interfaces are defined as user interfaces that dynamically adjust their behavior and
presentation based on changes in the user, environment, or task. Within MR environ-
ments, common approaches to implementing adaptive user interfaces include optimization-
based methods [29–32], supervised learning methods [ 33], and reinforcement learning
methods [27,34,35].
In the context of depth perception, binocular disparity provides users with an intuitive
understanding of object positions within a scene. Peterson et al. [ 1] demonstrated that
increasing the depth difference between overlapping labels could reduce visual search time
by 24%. Subsequently, Peterson et al. [ 36] extended their research to far-field scenarios
(100–120 m), revealing that separating overlapping labels in distant views significantly
improved response times. Additionally, Emsenhuber et al. [2] optimized label layouts by
rendering images from the user’s binocular perspective, effectively utilizing scene infor-
mation from both eyes. However, our experimental findings reveal that while binocular
disparity enhances depth perception, it simultaneously introduces double vision, which
degrades the overall visual experience.
2.3. Two-Dimensional vs. Three-Dimensional Label Layouts
While label placement in image space is generally simpler than in world space, it
introduces inherent limitations. For instance, when users change their viewpoints, un-
predictable layout changes can occur due to the transformation of projected 3D points.
Tatzgern et al. [6] observed that label reordering often happens when users move through
the environment. Moreover, image-space labels lack depth information, which can result in
poor integration between labels and the 3D environment, ultimately reducing the quality
of user interaction.
Three-dimensional label layouts, by contrast, offer the potential for more intuitive
and spatially consistent labeling, better leveraging the user’s understanding of the 3D
environment. This is especially true for dynamic 3D label layouts, where labels can adapt
and move within the 3D scene. However, this approach presents significant challenges.
Algorithms must consider the complexity of the scene, the user’s viewpoint, and the
potential for label overlap [ 37]. Furthermore, ensuring label stability and preventing
visual clutter becomes increasingly difficult as the number of labels increases [21]. Finally,
adapting UI element layouts in real time to dynamic viewpoints while preserving spatial

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 6 of 20
relationships and minimizing cognitive load on the user remains a complex optimization
problem [38].
To address the limitations of existing label layout methods in adapting to dynamic
viewpoints and mitigating double vision caused by binocular disparity, this paper proposes
a force-based real-time dynamic 3D label layout method under binocular viewpoints. This
approach allows labels to move freely within 3D scenes, ensuring visual consistency and
reducing occlusions for an enhanced user experience.
3. Preliminary Study
Binocular disparity arises from the slight difference in images captured by the left
and right eyes due to their distinct viewpoints. In a 3D environment, each eye perceives a
slightly offset view, and the brain integrates these images to construct a stereoscopic per-
ception. Figure 2 illustrates label layouts from left-eye, central, and right-eye perspectives.
Binocular disparity can cause double vision between labels or between labels and
objects. This occurs when depth differences result in the left and right eyes perceiving
labels at misaligned positions, making visual fusion difficult. When two labels (or a label
and an object) are positioned at significantly different depths, their disparity increases,
preventing the visual system from merging them into a single coherent image. As a result,
users may perceive duplicated or misaligned labels, leading to visual discomfort and
reduced readability.
However, most existing layout methods optimize label placement only from a central
viewpoint. As shown in Figure 2d–f, while overlap is resolved in the central view, it persists
in the right-eye view. Consequently, when the brain combines both eye images into a
unified 3D perception, users still experience double vision [39].
To investigate the impact of binocular parallax-induced double vision between labels
on users, we conducted an exploratory user study. The evaluation considered readability,
visual comfort, aesthetics, and interactivity of labels. In this work, the interactivity of labels
refers to the ability of users to select a specific label within the 3D scene. User perceptions
of this interactivity were qualitatively evaluated using Likert-scale questions, the specific
design of which is detailed in the “Measures” Section of this chapter. This study was
approved by our institution’s ethics committee.
Study design. We designed two scenes to compare the effects of double vision
between labels. Scene 1 (Figure 3(left, b)): in the left-eye viewpoint, labels do not overlap,
whereas in the right-eye viewpoint, labels overlap, resulting in double vision. Scene 2
(Figure 3(left, a)): labels do not overlap in either eye’s viewpoint, eliminating double
vision. To ensure that the label overlap caused by binocular disparity was consistent across
participants, we marked a fixed observation point in the scenes, requiring all users to stand
at the same position. Additionally, label height was adjusted based on each participant’s
height to align with their eye level. To mitigate potential order effects, we counterbalanced
the order in which participants completed the two scenes. After observing both scenes,
participants completed a Likert-scale questionnaire to assess readability, visual comfort,
aesthetic appeal, and interactivity of the labels.
Participants. A total of 19 participants (11 female, 8 male) were recruited for this
study. They range in the age from 20 to 45 (M = 27.2). Among them, 15 participants had
prior experience using VR systems, while 4 had little to no experience. All participants had
normal or corrected-to-normal vision and reported no significant prior history of motion
sickness in VR environments. Informed consent was obtained from all participants before
the study.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 7 of 20
Study flow.In the study flow, participants were given a brief overview of the study’s
purpose. Participants observed layouts in both scenarios. In scene 1, double vision between
labels occurs due to binocular disparity, whereas in scene 2, it is absent.
Figure 3. Scene of the preliminary study ( left): ( a) double vision is eliminated; ( b) double vision
occurs between labels. User evaluation results under the two experimental conditions (with and
without double vision) are shown on the (right). Error bars indicate the 95% confidence intervals. ***,
**, and * represent 0.1%, 1%, and 5% significance levels, respectively.
Measures. A five-point Likert scale was used to collect user feedback, with the
following questions: Is the text on the labels easy to read (Q1, Readability)? Is reading the
labels visually comfortable (Q2, Visual Comfort)? Does the label layout affect aesthetic
appeal (Q3, Aesthetics)? In this context, are the speed and accuracy of selecting labels with
a controller affected (Q4, Interactivity)?
Methods for data analysis. A paired-sample t-test was employed to assess whether
significant differences exist in readability, visual comfort, aesthetic appeal, and interactivity.
First, the Shapiro–Wilk test was conducted to assess whether our data approximately
followed a normal distribution. Subsequently, a paired-sample t-test [40] was performed
to evaluate the significance of the p-values. If significant differences were found, further
analysis of effect sizes was conducted. Cohen’s d [41] was used to evaluate the effect size of
the differences, where values in the range of [0.5, 0.8) indicate a medium effect, and values
greater than 0.8 signify a large effect.
Results. Prior to analysis, we conducted the Shapiro–Wilk test, confirming that the
data approximately followed a normal distribution. As is shown in Figure 3(right), a
paired-sample t-test showed significant differences between the two conditions across all
measures. The experimental results (as shown in Table 1) indicate that the most significant
differences between the two experimental conditions were observed for visual comfort and
interactivity, followed by readability and aesthetics.
Table 1. Results of paired-sample t-tests for the preliminary study. ***, **, and * represent 0.1%, 1%,
and 5% significance levels, respectively.
Dimension t p Cohen’sd
Readability −3.545 0.002 ** 0.813
Visual Comfort −4.748 <0.001 *** 1.089
Aesthetics −2.446 0.025 * 0.561
Interactivity −4.595 <0.001 *** 1.054
Discussion. Compared to labels with double vision, those without double vision sig-
nificantly enhance visual comfort and interactivity, while moderately improving readability
and aesthetics. These results suggest that eliminating double vision is crucial for improving
user experience.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 8 of 20
4. Method
We propose a force-based continuous updating strategy designed to address the
challenges of 3D dynamic label layouts under binocular viewpoints. This section elaborates
on our method from two perspectives: binocular optimization (Section 4.1) and the force-
based strategy (Section 4.2).
4.1. Optimization Under Binocular Viewpoints
The double vision between labels arises due to binocular disparity, as traditional
layout optimization strategies rely on a single-camera viewpoint (as shown in Figure 4a).
To address this issue, we optimize the layout from a binocular perspective by simulating
the user’s left- and right-eye views using two virtual cameras positioned on either side
of the main camera (as shown in Figure 4b). Following MacLachlan et al.’s [42] study on
the average interpupillary distance, we set the distance between the virtual cameras to a
fixed value of 6.4 cm. In each viewpoint, scene information is processed independently,
and the results are then jointly optimized to obtain the final outcome. For example, when
calculating label overlap, we compute the overlapping area ratio between labels and use the
larger result from the two viewpoints as the final measure, integrating it into the force-based
layout update.
Figure 4. Monocular and binocular label layout optimization methods. The monoscopic optimization
strategy computes the 3D scene from the perspective of the main camera only (a). In contrast, the
binocular optimization strategy employs two virtual cameras to simulate the left- and right-eye
perspectives, allowing the scene to be perceived and computed from both viewpoints ( b). Both
monocular and binocular optimization methods output optimized 3D label layouts—arranging labels
in 3D space to ensure clarity and avoid occlusion. Monocular methods, relying on a single viewpoint,
may produce double vision, while binocular methods leverage dual-view information to mitigate
this issue.
Figure 2g–i illustrate the effectiveness of this approach in mitigating label overlap
from a binocular perspective. The results show that no overlap occurs in either the left-eye
or right-eye view, thereby eliminating potential ghosting when users perceive the scene
binocularly. Given that similar double vision issues also occur between labels and objects,
we further extend this binocular optimization strategy to address label–object overlap.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 9 of 20
4.2. Force-Based Updates
Each label is initially positioned at its corresponding anchor point and then continu-
ously updated under the influence of forces. Figure 5 shows the forces applied to labels.
Repulsive force. To ensure a more even distribution of labels in the space, each label
experiences a repulsive force from all other labels. As shown in Figure 5a,label i experiences
repulsive forces from label j and label k. The repulsive force exerted on label i by label j is
inversely related to the distance between them, which is calculated as follows:
Fi
repulse = 1
n − 1 ∑
j̸=i
1
||li − lj|| · ⃗dij
where
• Fi
repulse is the repulsive force experienced by label i.
• n is the total number of labels in the space.
• li represents the coordinates of label i.
• lj represents the coordinates of label j.
• ||li − lj|| is the Euclidean distance between label i and label j.
• ⃗dij is the unit vector pointing from label j to label i.
Figure 5. Illustration of the five forces applied to labels. (a) The repulsive force exerted on a label by
other labels; (b) the attractive force pulling a label towards its corresponding anchor point; (c) the
repulsive force between overlapping labels; (d) the repulsive force on a label due to overlap with
an object; (e) the force introduced to resolve leader line crossings; (f) the method for calculating the
magnitude of the force resolving leader line crossings.
Attractive force. To prevent labels from being too far from their corresponding anchor
points, each label is subjected to an attractive force (Figure 5b) from its anchor point. The
attractive force exerted on label i by its corresponding anchor point is positively correlated
with the distance between them, which is calculated as follows:
Fi
attract = ||li − ai|| · ⃗di
where
• Fi
attract is the attractive force experienced by label i.
• li represents the coordinates of label i.
• ai represents the coordinates of the anchor point corresponding to label i.
• ⃗di is the unit vector pointing from li to ai.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 10 of 20
Overlapping force. If labels overlap with each other or with an object, a repulsive
force (Figure 5c,d) is applied to minimize visual interference. Adapting Pick et al. [ 23], we
calculate the overlap area and introduce the overlapping ratio—the proportion of a label’s
overlap to its total area—ensuring size-independent measurement. Then, we define Ri,j ,
the label overlapping ratio between label i and label j, or label i and object j, under binocular
viewpoints, which is calculated as follows:
Ri,j = max

Rle f t
i,j , Rright
i,j

where
• Rle f t
i,j is the overlapping ratio from the viewpoint of the left eye.
• Rright
i,j is the overlapping ratio from the viewpoint of the right eye.
The magnitude of the overlapping force Fi,j
overlap is directly proportional to Ri,j, which
is calculated as follows:
Fi,j
overlap = m · Ri,j · ⃗dij
where
• m is a constant empirically set to 4 to enhance the effect of the overlapping force.
This value was determined through a series of experiments where we varied m and
observed the resulting label layouts. Values significantly below 4 caused insuffi-
cient label separation, while values much higher than 4 pushed labels too far apart,
compromising visual coherence.
• Ri,j is the label overlapping ratio between label i and label j (or label i and object j).
• ⃗dij represents a unit direction vector pointing from label j to label i (or object j to label i),
projected onto the plane defined by the normal vector of the line connecting the user’s
position to the midpoint of the two labels (or a label and an object).
Leader line intersection force. Leader lines intersect when the user moves or changes
viewpoint in a VR environment. To address this, a new force (Figure 5e) that acts on the
labels associated with intersecting leader lines is introduced. The magnitude of the force is
as follows:
||Fi,j
line −intersection || = Di,j = min(area1, area2)
(area1 + area2)
where
• Di,j represents the degree of leader line crossings between label i and label j.
• area1 denotes the area of the triangle formed by u, l pi, and l pj, where the intersecting
leader lines are projected from world space into the main camera’s screen space; the
intersection point of the two lines is denoted as u, with l pi and l pj corresponding to
label i and label j, respectively (Figure 5f).
• area2 corresponds to the area of the triangle formed by u, ap i, and ap j, where ap i and
ap j represent their associated anchor points.
The force direction of label i is denoted as diri, which is calculated as follows:
⃗diri =



−⃗ni, if θ2 > θ1
⃗ni, otherwise
where
• ⃗diri is the force direction of label i.
• ⃗ni is the normal vector of the plane defined by the position of anchor points ai, aj, and
label li.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 11 of 20
• ⃗nj is the normal vector of the plane defined by the position of anchor points ai, aj, and
label lj.
• θ1 represents the angle between vectors ⃗ni and ⃗nj.
• θ2 represents the angle between ⃗ni and −⃗nj.
θ1 and θ2 are calculated as follows:
θ1 = cos−1
 
⃗ni · ⃗nj
|⃗ni||⃗nj|
!
θ2 = cos−1
 
⃗ni · (−⃗nj)
|⃗ni|| − ⃗nj|
!
We introduce the force Fcirc proposed by Pick et al. [23], aimed at generating a circular
layout for the labels to enhance aesthetic appeal. After computing the aforementioned
forces, we obtain the resultant force acting on label i by calculating the weighted sum of its
individual force components, as shown in the equation below.
Fi = w1Fi
repulse + w2Fi
attract + w3 ∑
j̸=i
Fi,j
overlap
+ w4 ∑
k̸=i
Fi,k
line −intersection + w5Fi
circ
(1)
where j represents other labels and objects in the scene, while k refers specifically to other
labels. The weights are empirically set as follows: w1 = 0.02, w2 = 0.09, w3 = 0.06,
w4 = 0.8, and w5 = 0.03.
In each frame, the resultant force Fi is computed for each label label i in each scene.
The label’s displacementx is then determined based on Fi, and its coordinate li is updated
as follows:
li = li + x
To enhance stability, the computed displacement is further scaled by an empirical
factor of 0.01. Additionally, to enhance readability for users on the move, we adjusted the
label orientation in each frame so that it consistently faces the user.
5. Computational Assessment
5.1. Evaluating Double Vision in Binocular and Monocular Viewpoints
To assess the effectiveness of the binocular optimization strategy, we propose a novel
metric, double vision degree (DBV), to compare scenarios with and without binocular
optimization. DBV quantifies the proportion of double vision area to the total label area for
each label, averaged over each time step. The double vision area is estimated as the absolute
difference between the overlapping label area in the left-eye and right-eye viewpoints.
We conducted experiments in three different scenes: fruit, virus, and helicopter
(Figure 6). The virus scene exemplifies the challenges of label placement at a small scale,
demanding precise label localization. Conversely, the helicopter scene represents the chal-
lenges associated with labeling a large-scale object, requiring an effective approach for
managing labels and clearly presenting its components. Finally, the fruit scene, comprising
multiple independent models, is designed to evaluate our method’s performance in multi-
object scenes. For the label layout results, please refer to the supplementary materials. To
simulate dynamic conditions, we set the camera to continuously move within the scene.
It followed a circular trajectory parallel to the ground around the scene center. Every five
seconds, the camera had a 50% probability of stopping for five seconds or continuing with
linear motion in a random direction parallel to the ground for another five seconds.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 12 of 20
Figure 6. Three scenes (virus, fruit, and helicopter) in the computational assessment, visualized using
our BinoForce layout method.
The results shown in Table 2 indicate that the binocular optimization strategy reduces
the proportion of double vision per label. In the fruit scene, the DBV value without the
binocular optimization strategy is 0.01112, while with the binocular optimization strategy,
it decreases to 0.00937, a reduction of 15.74%. In the virus and helicopter scenes, the DBV
values decrease by 11.19% and 13.39%, respectively.
Table 2. Comparison of performance with the binocular optimization strategy (w/ B-Opt) versus with-
out the binocular optimization strategy (w/o B-Opt) in reducing double vision across three scenes.
Scene w/ B-Opt w/o B-Opt
Fruit 0.00937 0.01112
Virus 0.05151 0.05800
Helicopter 0.02530 0.02921
5.2. Analysis of Overlap and Leader Line Crossings
Since leader line crossings and label overlap are two critical factors affecting label
layout quality, we introduce two metrics: Line Crossing Degree (LCD) and Overlap Ratio
(OLR). LCD measures the average degree of leader line crossings per time step, with
the definition of leader line crossing degree provided in Section 4. OLR quantifies the
proportion of each label’s overlapped area to its total area, averaged over each time step.
The experiments were conducted in three scenes (fruit, virus, and helicopter) under
the same settings described in Section 5.1. Additionally, we compared our method with
two methods: (1) Baseline: Labels were positioned at a fixed distance along the vector
extending from the scene center to each object, with their orientations dynamically adjusted
to face the user in each frame. (2) Hedgehog [6]: A state-of-the-art 3D label layout method for
static objects that employs a discrete update strategy, updating label positions only when
the angle between the view vector and label plane normal exceeds a predefined threshold.
The results shown in Table 3 demonstrate that our method achieves the lowest overlap
among the three approaches. In the fruit scene, the OLR produced by our method was
0.02005, which is only 15.32% of Baseline and 23.87% of Hedgehog. In both the virus and
helicopter scenes, our method also significantly reduced the OLR compared to the other
two methods. Moreover, our method achieved the best performance in reducing leader
line crossings. The Baseline inherently avoids leader line crossings due to its radial label
placement. The LCD values for Hedgehog in the three scenes are 0.01998, 0.02048, and
0.02748, respectively. This is likely due to Hedgehog’s plane-based occlusion management
strategy, which causes leader line crossings between different planes as the user’s viewpoint
changes. Compared to Hedgehog, our method produced lower LCD values of 0.00285,
0.01747, and 0.01287 in the fruit, virus, and helicopter scenes, respectively, all of which are
lower than the corresponding results obtained with Hedgehog.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 13 of 20
Table 3. The comparison of three methods in terms of leader line crossings and label overlap.
Scene OLR LCD
Baseline Hedgehog BinoForce Baseline Hedgehog BinoForce
Fruit 0.13079 0.08397 0.02005 0.00004 0.01998 0.00285
Virus 0.40784 0.32541 0.20177 0.00118 0.02048 0.01747
Helicopter 0.69942 0.32311 0.15847 0.00020 0.02748 0.01287
6. User Study
We conducted a user study to evaluate whether our method facilitates faster compre-
hension of scene information in dynamic environments. This study was approved by our
institution’s ethics committee.
6.1. Methods
Apparatus. Our label layout application was developed using the Unity game engine
(version 2022.3.8f1c1), utilizing the XR Interaction Toolkit (version 2.4.3) to manage virtual
reality interactions. The application was tested on a Nolo VR headset, which was connected
to a laptop equipped with an Intel i9-13900 2.20 GHz CPU, an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4090
GPU, and 32 GB of RAM.
Participants. We recruited 24 participants (13 female, 11 male) aged between 20 and
45 years (M = 26.5). Among them, 17 had prior experience with VR systems, while 7 had
little to no experience. All participants had normal or corrected-to-normal vision and
reported no significant history of motion sickness in VR environments. Informed consent
was obtained from all participants prior to the study.
Study design. We employed a within-subject design with nine scenes, defined by
two independent variables: METHOD (Baseline, Hedgehog, BinoForce) and DENSITY (Low,
Medium, High). Each scene consisted of a 1 m × 1 m × 1 m cube, where 10, 17, and
24 objects were placed in the cube in the low-, medium-, and high-density conditions,
respectively (Figure 7). Each object was associated with a label displaying a randomly
generated six-letter English string, as is illustrated in Figure 8(left). Participants were
asked to move freely within a range of 1 to 2 m from the cube, observing the gener-
ated label layout from any perspective. In each scene, participants performed a label-
reading task: at random intervals, a randomly selected object was highlighted in blue.
Upon seeing the highlight, the participant was required to read the corresponding label
aloud. Each scene included seven repetitions of this task. In total, we collected 1512 trials
(24 participants × 3 methods × 3 density levels × 7 repetitions) of data. A Latin Square
design was employed to counterbalance the presentation order and mitigate learning and
fatigue effects.
Figure 7. User study scenarios under three density conditions: the low-density scenario contains
10 labels ( left), the medium-density scenario contains 17 labels ( middle), and the high-density
scenario contains 24 labels (right). All illustrated scenarios utilize our label layout method.
Study flow.Participants first completed an informed consent form and a demographic
questionnaire, followed by a brief introduction to the study’s purpose. Before the main ex-
periment, they underwent a short training session in a simple virtual scene to familiarize

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 14 of 20
themselves with the equipment and tasks. Once they confirmed readiness, the experiment com-
menced. Each participant completed a total of 63(3 methods × 3 density levels × 7 repetitions)
label-reading trials. Participants were instructed to complete the task as quickly and accurately
as possible.
Figure 8. Example of the user study scenario (left) and task completion time across different label
densities for the three methods (right). Error bars indicate the 95% confidence interval. ***, **, and *
represent 0.1%, 1%, and 5% significance levels, respectively.
Measures. We recorded the task completion time (TCT), measured from the moment
an object was highlighted until the participant read its label correctly. After the experiment,
participants provided subjective feedback through two questionnaires: a standard NASA-
TLX survey [9] to assess perceived workload and a five-point Likert scale evaluating the
effectiveness of each method. For each method, users were required to answer the following
five questions: Are the labels clear and easy to read? (Q1, Clarity) Is the label layout visually
appealing? (Q2, Aesthetics) Does the label layout remain stable? (Q3, Stability) Does the
algorithm effectively adjust the layout when quality deteriorates? (Q4, Adaptability) How
satisfied are you with the overall layout? (Q5, Satisfaction) Finally, participants were asked
to provide qualitative feedback on the strengths and weaknesses of each method.
Methods for data analysis. A one-way repeated measures ANOVA was conducted
to compare task completion time across the three label density conditions. First, the
Shapiro–Wilk test [40] was used to assess the normality of the data, which confirmed
that our data followed a normal distribution. Next, we tested the sphericity assumption
to evaluate the correlation among conditions. After confirming sphericity, we examined
whether significant differences existed among the three methods. Finally, the Bonferroni
method was applied for post hoc multiple comparisons to identify specific differences.
To analyze the NASA-TLX survey and user questionnaire, the Friedman non-parametric
test was used to determine whether significant differences existed among the methods for
each metric. The Wilcoxon signed-rank test was then applied to assess the magnitude of
these differences.
6.2. Results
Figure 8 presents the results of task completion times under varying label density
conditions. For low density, METHOD was found to have a statistically significant effect on
completion time, with a large effect size (F2,46 = 34.898, p < 0.001). For task completion time
across methods, we found significant differences between Baseline and Hedgehog (p < 0.05),
as well as between Baseline and BinoForce (p < 0.001). For medium density, METHOD was
found to have a statistically significant effect on task completion time, with a large effect
size (F2,46 = 16.375, p < 0.001). Our method took the least time to complete when compared
to Baseline (p < 0.01) and Hedgehog (p < 0.001). The difference between Baseline and Hedgehog
was not significant. For high density, METHOD was found to have a statistically significant

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 15 of 20
effect on completion time, with a large effect size (F2,46 = 25.103, p < 0.001). Our method took
the least time to complete when compared to Baseline (p < 0.001) and Hedgehog (p < 0.001).
The difference between Baseline and Hedgehog was not significant.
Figure 9 and Table 4 present the results of the NASA TLX survey. The Friedman
test indicates that the method significantly affects mental demands, physical demands,
temporal demands, and effort. However, there is no significant effect on performance and
frustrations. In terms of mental demands, Hedgehog has a significant effect compared to
Baseline (Z = −2.818, p < 0.01) and BinoForce (Z = −3.707, p < 0.001). For physical demands,
BinoForce significantly affects bothBaseline (Z = −3.225, p = 0.001) and Hedgehog (Z = −3.659,
p < 0.001). Regarding temporal demands, our method shows a significant effect compared
to Baseline (Z = −3.216, p < 0.001) and Hedgehog (Z = −3.289, p < 0.001). For effort demands,
our method shows a significant effect compared to both Baseline (Z = −2.708, p = 0.007) and
Hedgehog (Z = −3.686, p < 0.001).
Figure 9. The results of the standard NASA-TLX survey ( left) and the user questionnaire ( right).
Error bars indicate the 95% confidence interval. ***, **, and * represent 0.1%, 1%, and 5% significance
levels, respectively.
Table 4. Friedman test results for the NASA-TLX survey (top) and user questionnaire (bottom).
Dimension χ2
2 p W
Mental 15.929 <0.001 0.332
Physical 14.990 <0.001 0.300
Temporal 15.741 <0.001 0.328
Performance 2.141 0.343 0.045
Effort 8.458 0.015 0.176
Frustration 3.928 0.140 0.082
Dimension χ2
2 p W
Clarity 24.376 <0.001 0.508
Aesthetics 16.088 <0.001 0.335
Stability 11.425 0.003 0.238
Adaptability 23.928 <0.001 0.498
Satisfaction 24.442 <0.001 0.509
Figure 9 and Table 4 shows the results of the user questionnaire. The Friedman test
indicates that the method significantly affects clarity, aesthetics, stability, adaptability,
and satisfaction. In terms of clarity, our method has a significant effect compared to
Baseline (Z = −3.957, p < 0.001) and Hedgehog (Z = −3.364, p < 0.001). For aesthetics,
BinoForce significantly affects both Baseline (Z = −3.107, p = 0.002) and Hedgehog (Z = −3.520,
p < 0.001). Regarding stability, Hedgehog shows a significant effect compared to Baseline
(Z = −2.137, p = 0.033) and BinoForce (Z = −3.101, p = 0.002). For adaptability, the data
indicated significant differences between Baseline and Hedgehog (Z = −2.671, p = 0.008),

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 16 of 20
Baseline and BinoForce (Z = −3.973, p < 0.001), as well as Hedgehog and BinoForce (Z = −2.979,
p = 0.003). For satisfaction, our method significantly affects both Baseline (Z = −4.001,
p < 0.001) and Hedgehog (Z = −3.079, p = 0.002).
6.3. User Feedback
After completing the experiment, participants were asked to provide feedback on each
method, highlighting its strengths and weaknesses.
For the Baseline method, several participants positively evaluated the method’s stabil-
ity, with representative comments including the following: “Highly stable and intuitive”
(P9) and “The fixed relative positions between labels and objects allow rapid visual search
once leader lines are established” (P10). One participant explicitly noted “This approach
enhances label positional stability” (P20). Additionally, some participants (P6, P16) reported
that the stability facilitated easier memorization of label locations. However, this stability
also introduced occlusion issues, making label reading more challenging. For example, in
terms of physical effort, some participants reported that “constantly adjusting the viewing
angle to read labels was tiring” (P4) and “It took too much energy to read occluded labels”
(P18). In terms of accuracy, one participant mentioned occasional misreading, such as
mistaking “h” for “n” (P10).
Regarding the Hedgehog method, approximately half of the participants appreciated
its adaptive nature, with comments such as the following: “The dynamic label adjustment
effectively mitigates occlusion issues” (P17) and “Real-time label repositioning improves
readability” (P5). However, several issues were raised: (1) Abrupt label movements.
Some participants found that label positions changed too drastically, making it difficult to
memorize their locations (P16, P19). Additionally, sudden updates during label reading
forced participants to “constantly shift their gaze” (P12, P13), making it hard to keep up
with the moving labels. (2) Unnecessary updates. Two participants mentioned that layout
updates occasionally occurred even when not needed (P8, P11). (3) Occlusion. Since the
layout was updated discretely rather than continuously, occlusion issues still occurred
during movement (P1, P2, P11).
Compared to the other two methods, most participants found BinoForce to provide
a clearer and more intuitive label layout, with representative comments including the
following: “The labels update their positions smoothly in real time without disruptive
jumps” (P12), “Adaptive label movement according to viewpoint changes significantly
improves legibility” (P2), and “The system responds instantaneously to user viewpoint
changes” (P18). Some participants mentioned that the real-time updates occasionally felt
unstable and distracting (P1, P20). However, others considered these updates to be “within
an acceptable range” (P4, P6, P11).
6.4. Discussion
Figure 8 shows that our method consistently outperforms Baseline in task completion
time, achieving statistically significant improvements. This indicates that our approach
provides a tangible benefit to users regardless of the complexity of the scene. While its
performance is comparable to Hedgehog in low-density conditions, it enables faster label
reading in medium- and high-density scenes, highlighting the advantage of our method
in more complex environments. As label density increases, the advantages of Hedgehog’s
discrete update strategy gradually diminish. This is likely because labels cannot update
their positions in real time, leading to constraint violations during viewpoint changes—an
issue that becomes more frequent with higher density. Therefore, we recommend adopting
our continuous update strategy in such scenarios, especially when dealing with medium to

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 17 of 20
high label densities where real-time adaptation is crucial for maintaining label clarity and
minimizing occlusion.
Figure 9 shows that, compared to the two baseline methods, our approach demon-
strates lower physical demands, temporal demands, and effort. The statistically significant
improvements in these categories suggest that our method is perceived as less physically
taxing, allows users to complete tasks more quickly, and requires less overall exertion. This
is a crucial finding, as reduced workload can lead to improved user satisfaction and reduced
fatigue, particularly in demanding tasks. Regarding performance and frustration, no signif-
icant differences were observed among the three methods, suggesting that a larger-scale
user study is needed to enhance statistical power and confirm significance. Additionally,
user questionnaire results indicate that our method outperforms the baselines in terms
of layout clarity, aesthetics, adaptability, and satisfaction. The statistically significant im-
provements across these categories suggest that users perceive our method as providing a
more understandable, visually appealing, flexible, and ultimately more pleasing experience.
These findings reflect the subjective preferences and overall impression of the users, which
can significantly impact the adoption and acceptance of the system.
However, both user feedback and questionnaire responses highlight a limitation of our
approach in terms of layout stability—a common challenge for continuous update strategies.
Nonetheless, some participants noted that while the layout stability of our method is
slightly weaker, it remains within an acceptable range. Furthermore, as we have so far only
tested our method within a controlled VR environment, future development must address
the complexities of real-world AR scenarios. These scenarios present significantly more
complex challenges, including greater environmental variability, more unpredictable user
movements, and a wider range of potential occlusions. Therefore, future work adapting
our method to these more complex real-world settings should focus on robustifying the
algorithm against these factors. This includes developing techniques to maintain label
clarity and stability even in the presence of significant noise and occlusion. Additionally, we
plan to develop an adaptive parameter adjustment mechanism to streamline the parameter
tuning process.
In summary, we introduce a binocular 3D dynamic label layout method leveraging
a continuous update strategy. Our approach improves task completion time, particularly
in dense labeling scenarios, while simultaneously reducing user workload (physical and
temporal demands, and effort). User feedback confirms that our method excels in layout
clarity, aesthetics, adaptability, and overall satisfaction. While layout stability presents a
minor limitation, it remains within acceptable parameters. Overall, our method offers a
solution for dynamic 3D labeling, especially where high label density and user experience
are paramount.
7. Conclusions
In this paper, we demonstrate that double vision between labels caused by binocular
disparity negatively impacts user experience and introduce a binocular optimization strat-
egy to address this issue. Building on this, we propose a 3D dynamic label layout method
based on a continuous updating strategy that incorporates a binocular optimization strat-
egy. This method simultaneously optimizes label layouts from both the left- and right-eye
perspectives while applying force-based adjustments to dynamically refine the layout.
Experimental results show that our method effectively reduces the occurrence of
double vision, label overlap, and leader line crossings in 3D scenes. Subjective and objective
evaluations confirmed that our method significantly improves layout clarity, aesthetics,
adaptability, and overall user satisfaction compared to baseline methods. Users were able

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 18 of 20
to comprehend scene information more efficiently, while experiencing reduced workload,
particularly in high-density labeling environments.
This work offers a solution for dynamic 3D labeling, particularly where high label
density, binocular viewing, and user experience are important. Future research will focus
on extending the applicability of our method to more complex real-world AR scenarios and
developing adaptive parameter adjustment mechanisms to further enhance its robustness
and usability.
Supplementary Materials: The following supporting information can be downloaded at: https:
//www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/electronics14112199/s1, The supplementary materials contain
label layout results under different scenes and viewpoints.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Z.Z. and Y.H.; Methodology, Z.Z. and Y.H.; Software,
Z.Z.; Investigation, Z.Z. and X.X.; Formal Analysis, Z.Z. and X.X.; Visualization, Z.Z. and X.X.;
Writing—Original Draft, Z.Z.; Writing—Review and Editing, Y.H.; Supervision, G.Y. All authors have
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by Technology and Engineering Center for Space Utilization,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, grant number No.T403461.
Institutional Review Board Statement: The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration
of Helsinki and approved by the Institutional Review Board of University of Chinese Academy of
Sciences (protocol code UCASSTEC25-019). Date of approval: 14 April 2025.
Informed Consent Statement: Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the study.
Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from the
corresponding author.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
References
1. Peterson, S.; Axholt, M.; Ellis, S.R. Managing visual clutter: A generalized technique for label segregation using stereoscopic
disparity. In Proceedings of the 2008 IEEE Virtual Reality Conference, Reno, NV , USA, 8–12 March 2008; pp. 169–176.
2. Emsenhuber, G.; Langlotz, T.; Kalkofen, D.; Sutton, J.; Tatzgern, M. Eye-perspective view management for optical see-through
head-mounted displays. In Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, Hamburg,
Germany, 23–28 April 2023; pp. 1–16.
3. Grasset, R.; Langlotz, T.; Kalkofen, D.; Tatzgern, M.; Schmalstieg, D. Image-driven view management for augmented reality
browsers. In Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality (ISMAR), Atlanta, GA,
USA, 5–8 November 2012; pp. 177–186.
4. Ali, K.; Hartmann, K.; Strothotte, T. Label Layout for Interactive 3D Illustrations. J. WSCG 2005, 13, 1–8.
5. ˇCmolík, L.; Bittner, J. Layout-aware optimization for interactive labeling of 3D models. Comput. Graph. 2010, 34, 378–387.
6. Tatzgern, M.; Kalkofen, D.; Grasset, R.; Schmalstieg, D. Hedgehog labeling: View management techniques for external labels in
3D space. In Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE Virtual Reality (VR), Minneapolis, MN, USA, 29 March–2 April 2014; pp. 27–32.
7. Madsen, J.B.; Tatzgern, M.; Madsen, C.B.; Schmalstieg, D.; Kalkofen, D. Temporal coherence strategies for augmented reality
labeling. IEEE T rans. Vis. Comput. Graph. 2016, 22, 1415–1423.
8. Zheng, Z.; He, Y.; Yu, G.; Xu, X. 3D Label Layout with Binocular Optimization. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGGRAPH
Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics and Games, Jersey City, NJ, USA, 7–9 May 2025.
9. Hart, S. Development of NASA-TLX (Task Load Index): Results of empirical and theoretical research. Hum. Ment. Workload. 1988,
52, 139–183.
10. Imhof, E. Positioning names on maps. Am. Cartogr. 1975, 2, 128–144.
11. Bekos, M.A.; Niedermann, B.; Nöllenburg, M. External labeling techniques: A taxonomy and survey. In Proceedings of the
Computer Graphics Forum; Wiley Online Library: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2019; Volume 38, pp. 833–860.
12. Oeltze-Jafra, S.; Preim, B. Survey of labeling techniques in medical visualizations. In Proceedings of the 4th Eurographics
Workshop on Visual Computing for Biology and Medicine, Vienna, Austria, 4–5 September 2014; pp. 199–208.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 19 of 20
13. Hartmann, K.; Ali, K.; Strothotte, T. Floating labels: Applying dynamic potential fields for label layout. In Proceedings of the Smart
Graphics: 4th International Symposium, SG 2004, Banff, Canada, 23–25 May 2004; Proceedings 4; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,
Germany, 2004; pp. 101–113.
14. Bekos, M.A.; Kaufmann, M.; Potika, K.; Symvonis, A. Polygon labelling of minimum leader length. In Proceedings of the APVis,
Tokyo, Japan, 1 February 2006; pp. 15–21.
15. Bekos, M.A.; Kaufmann, M.; Symvonis, A.; Wolff, A. Boundary labeling: Models and efficient algorithms for rectangular maps.
Comput. Geom. 2007, 36, 215–236.
16. Heinsohn, N.; Gerasch, A.; Kaufmann, M. Boundary labeling methods for dynamic focus regions. In Proceedings of the 2014
IEEE Pacific Visualization Symposium, Yokohama, Japan, 4–7 March 2014; pp. 243–247.
17. Qu, J.; Zhang, P .; Che, E.; Chen, Y.; Ling, H. Graph Transformer for Label Placement.IEEE T rans. Vis. Comput. Graph. 2024, 31,
1257–1267.
18. Shibata, F.; Nakamoto, H.; Sasaki, R.; Kimura, A.; Tamura, H. A View Management Method for Mobile Mixed Reality Systems. In
Proceedings of the IPT/EGVE, Eindhoven, The Netherlands, 29–30 May 2008; pp. 17–24.
19. Ekman, S. Force-Based Label Placement for Dynamic Data. Master’s Thesis, Chalmers University of Technology, University of
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden, 2018.
20. He, Y.; Zhao, G.D.; Zhang, S.H. Smoothness preserving layout for dynamic labels by hybrid optimization. Comput. Vis. Media
2022, 8, 149–163.
21. Tatzgern, M.; Orso, V .; Kalkofen, D.; Jacucci, G.; Gamberini, L.; Schmalstieg, D. Adaptive information density for augmented
reality displays. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE Virtual Reality (VR), Greenville, SC, USA, 19–23 March 2016; pp. 83–92.
22. Sirk, C.; Kalkofen, D.; Schmalstieg, D.; Bornik, A. Dynamic Label Placement for Forensic Case Visualization. In Proceedings of
the Eurographics Conference on Visualization, Barcelona, Spain, 12–16 June 2017.
23. Pick, S.; Hentschel, B.; Tedjo-Palczynski, I.; Wolter, M.; Kuhlen, T.W. Automated Positioning of Annotations in Immersive Virtual
Environments. In Proceedings of the EGVE/EuroVR/VEC, Stuttgart, Germany, 27 September–1 October 2010; pp. 1–8.
24. Zhou, Z.; Wang, L.; Popescu, V . A partially-sorted concentric layout for efficient label localization in augmented reality.IEEE
T rans. Vis. Comput. Graph. 2021, 27, 4087–4096.
25. Wei, X.; Shi, X.; Wang, L. Label guidance based object locating in virtual reality. In Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE International
Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality (ISMAR), Singapore, 17–21 October 2022; pp. 441–449.
26. Köppel, T.; Gröller, M.E.; Wu, H.Y. Context-responsive labeling in augmented reality. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE 14th Pacific
Visualization Symposium (PacificVis), Tianjin, China, 19–21 April 2021; pp. 91–100.
27. Chen, Z.; Chiappalupi, D.; Lin, T.; Yang, Y.; Beyer, J.; Pfister, H. RL-LABEL: A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach Intended
for AR Label Placement in Dynamic Scenarios. IEEE T rans. Vis. Comput. Graph. 2023, 30, 1347–1357.
28. Gebhardt, C.; Hecox, B.; Van Opheusden, B.; Wigdor, D.; Hillis, J.; Hilliges, O.; Benko, H. Learning cooperative personalized
policies from gaze data. In Proceedings of the 32nd Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology, New
Orleans, LA, USA, 20–23 October 2019; pp. 197–208.
29. Cheng, Y.F.; Gebhardt, C.; Holz, C. Interactionadapt: Interaction-driven workspace adaptation for situated virtual reality
environments. In Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology, San Francisco,
CA, USA, 29 October–1 November 2023; pp. 1–14.
30. Cheng, Y.; Yan, Y.; Yi, X.; Shi, Y.; Lindlbauer, D. Semanticadapt: Optimization-based adaptation of mixed reality layouts leveraging
virtual-physical semantic connections. In Proceedings of the 34th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and
Technology, Virtual Event, 10–14 October 2021; pp. 282–297.
31. Fender, A.; Herholz, P .; Alexa, M.; Müller, J. Optispace: Automated placement of interactive 3d projection mapping content. In
Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, Montreal, QC, Canada, 21–26 April 2018;
pp. 1–11.
32. Evangelista Belo, J.M.; Lystbæk, M.N.; Feit, A.M.; Pfeuffer, K.; Kán, P .; Oulasvirta, A.; Grønbæk, K. Auit–the adaptive user
interfaces toolkit for designing xr applications. In Proceedings of the 35th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software
and Technology, Bend, OR, USA, 29 October–2 November 2022; pp. 1–16.
33. Zhou, S.; Zheng, W.; Xu, Y.; Liu, Y. Enhancing user experience in VR environments through AI-driven adaptive UI design. J. Artif.
Intell. Gen. Sci. (JAIGS) 2024, 6, 59–82.
34. Lu, F.; Chen, M.; Hsu, H.; Deshpande, P .; Wang, C.Y.; MacIntyre, B. Adaptive 3d ui placement in mixed reality using deep
reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the Extended Abstracts of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, Honolulu, HI, USA, 11–16 May 2024; pp. 1–7.
35. Debard, Q.; Dibangoye, J.S.; Canu, S.; Wolf, C. Learning 3d navigation protocols on touch interfaces with cooperative multi-agent
reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the Joint European Conference on Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases ;
Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019; pp. 35–52.

Electronics 2025, 14, 2199 20 of 20
36. Peterson, S.D.; Axholt, M.; Ellis, S.R. Label segregation by remapping stereoscopic depth in far-field augmented reality. In
Proceedings of the 2008 7th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented Reality, Cambridge, UK, 15–18
September 2008; pp. 143–152.
37. Lin, T.; Yang, Y.; Beyer, J.; Pfister, H. Labeling out-of-view objects in immersive analytics to support situated visual searching.
IEEE T rans. Vis. Comput. Graph. 2021, 29, 1831–1844.
38. Lindlbauer, D.; Feit, A.M.; Hilliges, O. Context-aware online adaptation of mixed reality interfaces. In Proceedings of the 32nd
Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology, New Orleans, LA, USA, 20–23 October 2019; pp. 147–160.
39. Shibata, T.; Kim, J.; Hoffman, D.M.; Banks, M.S. The zone of comfort: Predicting visual discomfort with stereo displays. J. Vis.
2011, 11, 11.
40. Shaphiro, S.; Wilk, M. An analysis of variance test for normality. Biometrika 1965, 52, 591–611.
41. Cohen, J. Statistical Power Analysis for the Behavioral Sciences ; Routledge: London, UK, 2013.
42. MacLachlan, C.; Howland, H.C. Normal values and standard deviations for pupil diameter and interpupillary distance in
subjects aged 1 month to 19 years. Ophthalmic Physiol. Opt. 2002, 22, 175–182.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.